---
layout: page
title: Publications
---

[Z. Manchester and M. Peck. "Quaternion Variational Integrators for Spacecraft Dynamics." AIAA Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics (to appear).](/papers/Variational_Integrator.pdf)

> A general method for deriving variational integrators for systems with quaternion state variables is introduced. These integrators exhibit realistic energy and momentum behavior while having computational costs comparable to or less than low-order Runge-Kutta methods, making them suitable for both simulation and real-time estimation and control applications. Integrators are derived for several systems including rigid bodies with momentum actuators and internal viscous damping. Numerical examples illustrate the performance of the integrators and an application to attitude determination using an extended Kalman filter is presented.

Recursive Inertia Estimation with Semidefinite Programming

> A recursive algorithm suitable for on-orbit estimation of a spacecraft's inertia tensor is presented. The estimation problem is formulated as a semidefinite program with explicit enforcement of positive-definiteness and other constraints on the elements of the inertia tensor, which enhances convergence and guarantees that a physically valid result is returned. A discrete mechanics formulation of the spacecraft dynamics allows data routinely generated by spacecraft attitude determination systems to be directly used as input to the estimator. Numerical examples demonstrate the performance of the algorithm on simulated telemetry data.
